new best practices section and page to explain test case creation (#157)
OctoMind-dev/mintlify-docs: test-case-creation-strategy.mdx

---
title: Test case creation
description: "How to best create test cases for your project"
icon: "lightbulb"
---

## General Principles

> - start with a prompt

Reviewer: it's not really starting with a prompt from the sign-up and proposal though, should this just be `start with our AI` or something? also underneath

- use `dependencies`
- help the agent out if it went wrong
- use `run locally` and `Playwright Codegen`
- work on multiple test cases in parallel

## Start with a prompt

There are multiple ways to start with a prompt.

1. On sign-up choose as many test cases as possible from the catalogue (login, link checks, change language)

   <Frame caption="Select test cases on sign-up, screenshot 02/2024">
     <img
       src="images/sign-up-test-case-selection.png"
       alt="select test cases on sign-up"
       width="300px"
     />
   </Frame>

> 2. Always use "Discover test cases" from the overview page. It gives you a headstart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Always use "Discover test cases" from the overview page. It gives you a head start.
```

or probably just explain what the head start is

   <Frame caption="Discover test cases from overiew page, screenshot 02/2024">
     <img
       src="images/discover-test-cases-card.png"
       alt="discover test cases from overview page"
       width="300px"
     />
   </Frame>

3. Use "create custom test cases" from the overview page.

>    <Frame caption="Start test case creation formt he overview page, screenshot 02/2024">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   <Frame caption="Start test case creation from the overview page, screenshot 02/2024">
```

     <img
       src="images/create-custom-test-cases-card.png"
       alt="create customer test cases from the overview page"
       width="300px"
     />
   </Frame>

> The sign-up procedure also creates a test cases to close the cookie banner, if applicable while the login test case typcially opens the door for the high value user flows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sign-up procedure also creates a test case to close the cookie banner, if applicable, as well as a login test case that typically enables the high value user flow tests that depend on it.
```

<Tip>

> **Advantages of starting with a prompt**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Advantages of starting with AI**
```

> - All these techniques will give you a couple of test cases to get startet with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- All these techniques will give you a couple of test cases to get started with
```

> - with almost no effort.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  with almost no effort.
```

- Test case generation runs in parallel and in the background.

</Tip>

## Use dependencies

> Keep test cases short and to the point. Ideally each test case represents a small tasks you want to achieve. One technique to make this happen are dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep test cases short and to the point. Ideally each test case represents a small task you want to achieve. One technique to make this happen is using dependencies.
```

> Typically the first test case you need is "accept all cookies". Second one is "login with username and password", third one might be "open profile page".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Typically the first test case you need is "accept all cookies". The second one is "login with username and password" and the third one might be "open profile page".
```

> The second test case would have to take care of cookies. The third test case would have to take care of cookies and login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second test case would have to take care of cookies during its execution. The third test case would have to take care of cookies and login.
```

> This is because every test case runs in isolation and therefore always needs to be the full flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is because every test case runs in isolation and therefore always needs to include the full flow.
```

This is where dependencies - or test case chaining - gets really valuable.

> Make "accept all cookies" a dependency of "login with username and password" and make "login with username and password" a dependency of "open profile page".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make "accept all cookies" a dependency of "login with username and password" and make "login with username and password" a dependency of "open profile page" to chain them together.
```

> This way the test runner as well as the AI Agent are using pre-play to execute dependencies before starting their actual work.

Reviewer: this is the first time we talk about pre-play, I would probably just not mention it here, otherwise it's just confusing

### Example

> 1. The `accept cookies` tes case does not have dependencies since it is the first test case of them all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The `accept cookies` test case does not have a dependency as it is the first test case in the chain.
```

   <Frame caption="no dependency for accept cookies, screenshot 02/2024">
     <img
       src="images/dependency-01-accept-cookies.png"
       alt="no dependency for accept cookies"
       width="300px"
     />
   </Frame>

> 2. The `login with username and password` test case is based on the `accept cookies` test case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The `login with username and password` test case depends on the `accept cookies` test case.
```

>    <Frame caption="login with username and password is based on the accept cookies, screenshot 02/2024">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   <Frame caption="login with username and password depends on "accept cookies", screenshot 02/2024">
```

     <img
       src="images/dependency-02-login.png"

>        alt="login with username and password is based on the accept cookies"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       alt="login with username and password depends on accept cookies"
```

       width="300px"
     />
   </Frame>

> 3. The `open profile` test case is based on the `login with username and password` test case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The `open profile` test case depends on the `login with username and password` test case.
```

>    <Frame caption="Open profile is based on login with username and password, screenshot 02/2024">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   <Frame caption="Open profile depends on login with username and password, screenshot 02/2024">
```

     <img
       src="images/dependency-03-open-profile.png"

>        alt="Open profile is based on login with username and password"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       alt="Open profile depends on login with username and password"
```

       width="300px"
     />
   </Frame>

<Tip>
**Advantages of using dependencies**

- code is reused and only maintained in one place
- much shorter test cases which are easier to understand and debug
- much easier for the AI agent to be successful during code generation since it can concentrate on the main task instead of all the stuff before

</Tip>

## Help the agent out if it went wrong

> We are constantly improving the agent but it still might go wrong. In this case you need to help it find its way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are constantly improving the agent but it still might make mistakes. In this case you need to help it find its way.
```

Use the step inspector to fine tune interactions and assertions.

### Add missing steps

> You can add missing steps by clicking the `+` icon and choosing the desired intearction or assertion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add missing steps by clicking the `+` icon and choosing the desired interaction or assertion.
```

<Frame caption="add missing steps, screenshot 02/2024">
  <img src="images/steps-add-step.png" alt="add missing steps" width="300px" />
</Frame>

### Delete unnecessary steps

You can easily delete unnecessary steps by clicking the trash can symbol.

> <Frame caption="delete obsolet steps, screenshot 02/2024">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Frame caption="delete obsolete steps, screenshot 02/2024">
```

  <img
    src="images/steps-delete-step.png"

>     alt="delete obsolet steps"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    alt="delete obsolete steps"
```

    width="300px"
  />
</Frame>

### Run test cases

> Running a test case is producing a Trace. A Trace is a detailed description of what happened during test case execution. Use the Trace for debugging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running a test case is producing a trace. A trace is a detailed description of what happened during test case execution. Use the trace for debugging.
```

"trace" is a normal word not a brand name i believe

<Frame caption="run test case for validation, screenshot 02/2024">
  <img
    src="images/run-test-case.png"
    alt="run test case for validation"
    width="300px"
  />
</Frame>

<Tip>
  **Advantages of helping out the agent**
  

>   - modifying steps manually is tpically much faster then changing the prompts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - modifying steps manually is typically much faster than changing the prompts
```

  - You have much more control over the outcome.

</Tip>

## Use `run locally`

`run locally` helps you to save execution time and you can directly see what is happening.

> You can find the `run locally` in the debug section of your test case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the `run locally` button in the debug section of your test case.
```

<Frame caption="run locally: copy command view, screenshot 02/2024">
  <img
    src="images/run-locally-command-mobile.png"

>     alt="run locally: copy command view"

Reviewer: the image btw is NOT the copy command view

Author: ok, I will update it on the next run.

    width="300px"
  />
</Frame>

`run locally` is most helpful for step by step adjustments since it is giving you the current state of a page.

> You can use the locator tool to easily receive CSS locators. Activate it and click on the desired element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the locator tool to easily receive locators. Activate it and click on the desired element.
```

playwright locators are technically not all CSS locators.

> Then you can copy the CSS locator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then you can copy the locator.
```

> <Frame caption="run locally: CSS locator tool 02/2024">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Frame caption="run locally: locator tool 02/2024">
```

  <img
    src="images/run-locally-Playwright-selector.png"

>     alt="run locally: CSS locator tool"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    alt="run locally: locator tool"
```

  />
</Frame>

<Tip>
**Advantages of run locally**

> Run locall will speed-up your test creation efforts noticable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run locally will noticeably speed-up your test creation efforts.
```

</Tip>

## Outlook

> Expect the process to create test cases to change substantially over the next weeks and months. We are working

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expect the process for creating test cases to change substantially over the next weeks and months. We are working
```
